\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ptrash.info
@settitle info ptrash
@setchapternewpage odd
@paragraphindent 5
@firstparagraphindent insert
@c %**end of header

@set UPDATED Jun 30 2008
@set EDITION  1.1
@set VERSION 1.0.1

@copying
This file documents the @code{ptrash-@value{VERSION}} command for moving
files to trash directory under $HOME.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008 2009 Prasad J Pandit

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies
@end copying

@dircategory Individual utilities
@direntry
* ptrash: (ptrash).                             Move file(s) to ~/.trash.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title ptrash
@subtitle move file(s) to ~/.trash directory
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for ptrash Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author by Prasad J Pandit
@end titlepage

@contents
@ifnottex
@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)
@top ptrash-@value{VERSION}
@end ifnottex
@insertcopying

@menu
* Overview        ::	An introduction to ptrash
* Invoking ptrash ::	How to use ptrash
* Problems        ::	Reporting bugs
@end menu

@node Overview, Invoking ptrash, Top, Top
@c node-name, next, previous, up
@chapter Overview
@section Introduction
@code{ptrash} is a console based simple utility to move named file(s) to
~/.trash directory. In case the ~/.trash directory is non-existent,
@code{ptrash} creates it for you and then moves the file(s) to this directory.
By default @code{ptrash} runs in non-interactive mode. That means it does not
ask user if she is sure to move a file to ~/.trash even when the named file
already exists in ~/.trash and proceeds with overwriting that file.

@section How it evolved
@code{ptrash} is a console based simple application. I took upon writing this,
when I deleted(using rm) few files and found myself badly desperate to retrieve
them back, but just could not do so.

So, I wrote a program named @code{ptrash} which moved regular files from
current directory to ~/.trash, that's all. Then I thought @code{ptrash} should
do some more things such as movement of whole directory, restore an already
moved file from ~/.trash to its original location, etc. And now this version of
@code{ptrash} does all of these tasks; plus, facilitates moving of block and
character special device files and fifo files as well.

@node Invoking ptrash, Problems, Overview, Top
@c node-name, next, previous, up
@chapter Invoking ptrash
@code{ptrash} can be invoked by a simple command as

Usage: ptrash [OPTIONS] file-name-1 [file-name-2 ...]

As of now @code{ptrash} supports the following set of options

@table @samp
@item -d
@itemx --delete
delete named file(s) from ~/.trash. Do not use this option with -r or --restore
option
@item -i
Enables an interactive mode of operation; thus letting user to decide if she
want to overwrite OR delete an existing file or not.
@item -r
@itemx --restore
Restore a file from trash to its original location. Do not use this option
with -d or --delete option above
@item -h
@itemx --help
shows small help on the console
@item -v
@itemx --verbose
Turn on verbose operation mode
@item -V
@itemx --version
shows version information
@end table

@section Example:
@table @samp
@item $ ptrash readme.txt
move the file @code{readme.txt} to ~/.trash directory
@item $ ptrash -v readme.txt install report.doc tar1.tgz
This moves all the named files to ~/.trash directory with verbose mode of
operation enabled, that causes ptrash to show file name and progress bar as
it is moved
@item $ ptrash -r readme.txt tar1.tgz
This will cause ptrash to restore files @code{readme.txt} and @code{tar1.tgz} to
their respective original location.
@item $ ptrash -d install.txt minutes.txt
This will delete @code{install.txt} and @code{minutes.txt} from trash
directory.
@item $ ptrash -drv todo.txt
This'll result in an error message, as option -d and -r are not ment to be
used together.
@end table

@node Problems, , Invoking ptrash, Top
@c node-name, next, previous, up
@chapter Problems
@section Reporting bugs
If you think you have found a bug in @code{ptrash-@value{VERSION}}, send an
email to <pj.pandit AT yahoo.co.in>. While doing so please include
@code{ptrash-@value{VERSION}} string in the subject line, and precisely describe
about the behaviour of @code{ptrash-@value{VERSION}}.

@section Note
@code{ptrash-@value{VERSION}} does not moves symbolic links to/from ~/.trash.

Do not use option -d and -r together.
@bye
